At the end of the last video, I said that all this last transaction number stuff around the transaction
service was going to work somewhat similarly for our ticketing application as well, specifically the
tickets service.
So we had just been working on a little bit ago, I said that we were going to see how this stuff worked
with the ticket service later on, but I realized it probably made a lot more sense to just show you
how all this idea of a last transaction number or a version number of sorts is going to work with our
ticketing application right away while all this stuff is still fresh in our minds.
So quick example here of how this stuff is going to work with our tickets service.
So we're going to follow the exact same pattern we saw in this diagram back over here.
We're going to assume a request is going to come in to the service that owns that resource.
We're going to save that resource and then emit an event describing that change.
Now, one service in our application that really cares about the price of a ticket is the orders service
and the orders database.
We haven't worked on the order service just yet, but right now just understand that the Order Service
is going to need to know the price of every single ticket, and it's also going to need to know any
time that price changes as well.
So we're going to imagine that request is going to come in to our ticket service to first create a ticket
and then update that ticket over time.
And we're going to imagine what would happen if there is some issue with the ordering of these events
that are going to be issued from creating and then updating the ticket.
The first off, let's imagine what happens when we make these requests.
So request number one, we're going to try to create the ticket with a price of $10 that will flow in.
We'll process that and we'll make an update to our tickets database.
We're going to say that the ticket that we create is going to have an ID of queue.
An initial price of ten.
And then very similar to that transaction or last transaction number stuff that we had, whenever we
create a ticket, we're going to apply a version number to this thing as well.
So we're going to say that this is a version one of this record.
Well, then emit an event.
We'll write out over here.
So it'll probably have a name of something like a ticket created.
And then inside the event we'll provide the ID of the ticket.
Q The price of ten and the version number as well.
And so that will presumably be sent off immediately over to our net server and then that event will
show up inside of our order service.
Let's imagine that before that event is even emitted, maybe the user instantaneously follows up with
two additional requests to change that ticket price and very, very quick succession.
So we're going to imagine instantly after creating this ticket, a user then submits a request to update
the price of it.
We're going to say fine ticket, says Q and set its price to $50.
So we will process that change inside of our database, change the price to $50.
And then as soon as we make any change whatsoever to this record, we're going to increment that version
number.
So because we just changed this price, we'll now increment its version number to two.
And then, just as we saw previously, well, then fabricate an event.
Describing the change we just made.
So we'll give this a type of something like ticket updated an ID of Q it's new price and we'll also
put on there the version as well.
So now it's version two.
I think you can see where this is going.
So we're now going to have the last request come in very short order.
Okay.
Fine.
Tickets.
Q update is price to 100.
Very good.
Well then automatically update the version because we made a change to this record and now we will also
emit an event.
Of ticket updated ID of season Q Price is now 100 and version is three.
Okay.
So now we're going to imagine that these events get thrown off to the net streaming server.
Of course, they're going to be handled or thrown over to Nats one at a time.
So in other words, with the first request as soon as possible, we're going to throw that event over.
And then with the second request a little bit later, it will then be that one and then the third one.
And we can imagine that these all get thrown over sequentially in the correct order.
But just for the sake of this diagram, let's imagine they all just kind of show up in a big batch to
that streaming server.
So then we want to process these events inside of our order service because like I said, the order
service needs to know the exact price of a ticket at any given time.
So let's imagine that these events get processed, possibly very much out of order.
So once again, maybe the first event of creating the ticket goes to service a.
For instance, a and then the first update goes to B, and once again, we'll assume that this request
right here or this event to create the ticket is fails for whatever reason.
So we're going to wait 30 seconds for that thing to be processed.
So I'm going to throw it back over by Nats and it's eventually after 30 seconds, it's going to be sent
back over to one of our order service instances.
So now this order Service B has received this event and it's saying update the ticket.
Well, at this point in time, we don't have anything inside of our database about this ticket.
So we might write out some code inside there to say, try to find this ticket.
If we can't find a ticket with the ID queue, then just don't acknowledge the event.
Maybe throw an error for logging purposes and just don't acknowledge it.
So then after 30 seconds, this thing is going to time out.
So again, we'll imagine it goes back over to our server.
All right.
After 30 seconds have passed, we're now going to give a shot at processing a ticket created once again.
So to get created, well, let's go and create the ticket.
So we'll stick in an ID of queue.
A price of ten and a version of one.
So that's it.
We've now processed that event.
We can acknowledge it and we essentially forget it ever happened.
So now we need to process the second event and the third event.
So let's now say the second one goes over to listener A and this third one goes to V.
Once again, let's assume that something goes wrong with processing number two right here.
So that thing is going to eventually time out after 30 seconds and now be right here is going to try
to process this event.
So in this case, we are going to write code inside of our order service to say fine ticket sees queue,
take a look at its version and only update this thing if the version of the record saved in our database
is equal to two because we are trying to apply update three.
That means version two must have already been applied to process this update.
So in this case we would find ticket queue.
We would see that its version is one, which means we have not yet processed two.
So once again, we could throw an error, we could log something.
At any rate, we are not going to acknowledge this message.
We're going to allow this thing to time out and hopefully eventually be delivered to one of our services.
So then after 30 seconds or so Nats is going to try to re deliver ticket or event to we'll find.
Q The version we have in our database is one, we have an update record right here for two awesome everything
lines up.
So I'll update to two.
The price is going to go to 50 and we are happy campers.
And after some point in time, we're going to get this third one find.
Q There it is.
We have version two.
We're getting a update to go to version three.
Awesome.
Everything lines up.
We'll update that.
Update the price to 100.
And once again, we're good to go.
So that's exactly what we're going to do in our application.
All we have to do is add in this little version flag.
We're going to add it to the service.
That is the canonical service that manages any given resource.
So if we're talking about tickets, our ticket service is going to manage this version flag.
This is going to be the only location where the version is ever going to be directly updated everywhere
else.
So every other service that depends upon processing updates in response to this record is never going
to lead the ticket service.
In other words, we would never, ever expect the order database to somehow have a version of for while
the ticket database is still at a version of three.
So every other service, because these other services are not the ones directly in charge or directly
responsible for the definition of a ticket will always have an equal or lagging version for this record.
And again, we're only ever going to increment it on this primary service that manages this resource
whenever we make a change to one of the attributes inside of here.
Now, quick note.
If managing this version stuff sounds really daunting.
Absolutely.
Do not sweat.
It turns out that MongoDB and Mongoose actually have a lot of stuff built in to handle this versioning
stuff for us.
The only reason we're going through all this discussion is that you understand what this version stuff
is for.
It turns out that when we go to implement it, it's actually going to be really easy and straightforward,
but it's going to handle just about every conceivable scenario where we might throw some events.
At these order services or whatever else, and the service crashes or times out or the database isn't
available or not sends it to a service that isn't actually running and so on.
The only thing that we really have to worry about here, and this is something we'll discuss later on
is the case in which we try to process some event and we just repeatedly, repeatedly fail it over and
over again because it is for some reason completely unprocessed, unprocessed, civil.
And that's something we will discuss later on.
But for any kind of transient failure, like a broken connection or something like that, or we're getting
events out of order, this process, this idea of versioning is always going to fix it.
Okay.
I apologize for the billionth time for these long videos, but I'm just trying to do the biggest knowledge
dump I can.
We're pretty much at the done all done with all this kind of.
Theory stuff.
So now for real, we're going to take a pause, go back to the next video.
We're going to add in just a little bit more code to get understanding of this one last big feature
in Nats.
And then we'll be able to start implementing all this inventing stuff inside of our application.
Woohoo!
Okay, quick Buzz.
See you in a minute.